TDD (#161)
langchain-ai/langsmith-docs: docs/evaluation/faq/unit-testing.mdx

---
sidebar_label: Unit Test 
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Unit Tests

> Unit tests for LLMs are assertions and checks designed to **quickly** identify obvious bugs and regressions in your AI system. Relative to evaluations, tests are designed to be **fast** and **cheap** to run, focusing on **specific** functionality and edge cases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LangSmith unit tests for LLM applications are assertions and checks designed to **quickly** identify obvious bugs and regressions in your AI system. Relative to evaluations, tests are designed to be **fast** and **cheap** to run, focusing on **specific** functionality and edge cases. 
```

#### Caching 

LLMs on every commit in CI can get expensive. To save time and resources, LangSmith lets you cache results to disk. Any identical inputs will be loaded from the cache so you don't have to call out to your LLM provider unless there are changes to the model, prompt, or retrieved data.

To enable caching, run with `LANGCHAIN_TEST_CACHE=/my/cache/path`. For example:
  
```bash  
LANGCHAIN_TEST_CACHE=tests/cassettes pytest tests/my_llm_tests
```

All requests will be cached to `tests/cassettes` and loaded from there on subsequent runs. If you check this in to your repository, your CI will be able to use the cache as well.

#### Using `watch` mode

With caching enabled, you can iterate quickly on your tests using `watch` mode without worrying about unnecessarily hitting your LLM provider. For example, using [`pytest-watch`](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-watch/):

```bash
pip install pytest-watch
LANGCHAIN_TEST_CACHE=tests/cassettes ptw tests/my_llm_tests  
```

## Conclusion

> Unit testing with LangSmith is a quick and effective way to catch bugs and regressions in your AI system. By instrumenting your test functions with `@unit`, you can automatically track test results as experiments, monitor performance on specific test cases, and catch issues before they make it to production. Tests are fast and cheap to write, making them an ideal starting point for teams that want to begin systematically testing their LLMs without a huge upfront investment. Try adding LangSmith to your test suite today and start gaining visibility into your model's behavior.

Reviewer: this part feels like fluff, would cut out

:::note
`@unit` is currently only supported in python version `>=0.1.42`. If you are interested in unit testing functionality in TypeScript or other languages, please let us know at [support@langchain.dev](mailto:support@langchain.dev).  

> :::

Reviewer: add this to the top
